Applying intelligence leads to improvements that are lost again as people take the gains to perpetuate resource-intensive lifestyles.

The application of ‘intelligent technology’ can be driven by the pressure to rectify a worsening problem. The policy adopted, for political and cost reasons, may often be a technology fix. The result of this fix is to relieve the symptom for a while – for example, engines that are more energy-efficient. However, there are often unintended consequences – such as people eventually taking the gains as bigger vehicles with bigger engines. Thus, the original problem returns, often worse and more entrenched than it was before.

Applying intelligence is coupled with redesigning the work and built environments in a way that encourages people to take the gains as a shift in lifestyle.

If the basic application of technology takes longer, and is more robust and fundamental, then it is not technological sticking plaster but well-designed cure. The gains are taken towards sustainability, so there develops a dual tackling of the fundamental infrastructure problems - one from technology applications and the other from changes in values and lifestyle.

Things get better in the long term

Things get worse in the long term

infrastructure problems

Gains from intelligent infrastructure must encourage a sustainable shift of lifestyle.


---


Courageous policies and bold design examples increasingly divert resources to harness intelligent technologies towards resource-light lifestyles.

This system archetype of ‘success to the successful’ implies that at some point the failing fixes highlight that some patient and bold transformational investments are succeeding and so begin to attract more resources. As those successes become apparent, pressure to divert resources to the new approaches and technology applications gathers intensity to a tipping point.

---

We need to think about transport as a component of the more encompassing urban and global systems of which it is a part.

---

The potential of IIS is huge in creating urban re-circulating systems of resources, since they equip us with a whole range of systemic capabilities:

Any item, however small, can be connected to an unlimited information world to inform and influence its activities.

Markets can operate at any level of granularity, across any number of organisations, and can be mapped onto location with any level of discrimination.

Natural and artificial systems can be brought together into advanced environments where each supports the other (energy, waste, nutrients, heat and so on).

Prices can be assigned to usage rather than possession of anything – contextual intelligence allows ‘resource usage’ taxing rather than ‘value added’ taxing.